.TH alevtd 1 "(c) 2000 Gerd Knorr"
.SH NAME
alevtd - webserver for videotext pages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B alevtd [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B alevtd
is http daemon which serves videotext pages as HTML.  Tune in some
station with a utility like v4lctl or some TV application.  Then
start it and point your browser to http://localhost:5654/
.P
Pages may be requested either in HTML format
(http://localhost:5654/<page>/ or
http://localhost:5654/<page>/<subpage>.html) or in ASCII text format
(http://localhost:5654/<page>/<subpage>.txt).  Subpage "00" can be
used for pages without subpages.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
print a short \fBh\fPelp text and the default values for all options.
.TP
.B -v dev
set \fBv\fPbi device (default: /dev/vbi0).
.TP
.B -d
enable \fBd\fPebug output.
.TP
.B -s
Write a start/stop notice and serious errors to the \fBs\fPyslog.
Specify this option twice to get a verbose log (additional log
events like dropped connections).
.TP
.B -t sec
set network \fBt\fPimeout to >sec< seconds.
.TP
.B -c n
set the number of allowed parallel \fBc\fPonnections to >n<.  This is
a per-thread limit.
.TP
.B -p port
listen on \fBp\fPort >port< for incoming connections.  Default 5654.
.TP
.B -n hostname
set the host\fBn\fPame which the server should use (required
for redirects).
.TP
.B -i ip
bind to \fBI\fPP-address >ip<.
.TP
.B -l log
\fBl\fPog all requests to the logfile >log< (common log format).
Using "-" as filename makes alevtd print the access log to stdout,
which is only useful together with the -F switch (see below).
.TP
.B -L log
same as above, but additional flush every line.  Useful if you
want monitor the logfile with tail -f.
.TP
.B -u user
set \fBu\fPid to >user< (after binding to the tcp port).  This
option is allowed for root only.
.TP
.B -g group
set \fBg\fPid to >group< (after binding to the tcp port).  This
option is allowed for root only.
.TP
.B -F
don't run as daemon.  alevtd will not fork into background, not detach
from terminal and report errors to stderr.
.TP
.B -r
poll tv frequency, clear vtx page cache if a frequency change was
detected.
.SH SEE ALSO
alevt(1), xawtv(1), v4lctl(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Knorr <kraxel@goldbach.in-berlin.de>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2000 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@goldbach.in-berlin.de>
.P
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.P
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
