.TH motv 1 "(c) 1997-2001 Gerd Knorr"
.SH NAME
motv - a Motif program for watching TV
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B motv [ options ] [ station name ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B motv
is a Motif application for watching TV with your unix box.
.P
It is basically xawtv with a more userfriendly GUI.  It has the same
features, uses the same config file, has the same command line
switches, you can control it using xawtv-remote.  Most keyboards
shortcuts are identical too.
.SH OPTIONS
All command line options also have a Resource, so you can put them
into your .Xdefaults file too.
.TP
\fB-h\fP, \fB-help\fP
Print a short description of all command line options.
.TP
\fB-hwscan\fP
Print a list of available devices.
.TP
\fB-f\fP, \fB-fullscreen\fP
startup in fullscreen mode.
.br
Resource: motv.fullscreen (bool).
.TP
\fB-n\fP, \fB-noconf\fP
don't read the config file ($HOME/.xawtv).
.br
Resource: motv.readconfig (bool).
.TP
\fB-o\fP, \fB-outfile\fP base
set basestring for the snapshot output files.  The filename will be
"base-timestamp-nr.ext".
.br
Resource: motv.basename (string).
.TP
\fB-c\fP, \fB-device\fP device
set video4linux device (default is /dev/video0).  This option also
disables Xvideo support.
.br
Resource: motv.device (string).
.TP
\fB-D\fP, \fB-driver\fP name
set video4linux driver (default is "libv4l").  This option also
disables Xvideo support.
.br
Resource: motv.driver (string).
.TP
\fB-C\fP, \fB-dspdev\fP device
set audio device (default is /dev/dsp).
.br
Resource: motv.dspdev (string).
.TP
\fB-vbidev\fP device
set vbi device (default is /dev/vbi0).
.br
Resource: motv.vbidev (string).
.TP
\fB-c\fP, \fB-xvport\fP number
set Xvideo port (defaults to the first usable if Xvideo is available).
This option also enables Xvideo support.
.br
Resource: motv.xvport (int).
.TP
\fB-joydev\fP device
joystick device to use for controlling xawtv.
.br
Resource: xawtv.joydev (string).
.TP
\fB-v\fP, \fB-debug\fP level
Be verbose,
.B level
may be 0 (default), 1 or 2.  It exists just for debugging and
trouble-shooting.
.br
Resource: motv.debug (int).
.TP
\fB-remote\fP
X11 display is remote.  This basically disables overlay mode, you
might need this if xawtv fails to autodetect a remote X11 display.
.br
Resource: motv.remote (bool).
.TP
\fB-b\fP, \fB-bpp\fP n
force xawtv into
.B n
bpp color depth.  Works for switching between 15/16 and 24/32 bpp.
This gets just passed through to v4l-conf(8).
.br
Resource: motv.bpp (int).
.TP
\fB-shift\fP n
Shift the video display by
.B n
bytes.  Try this if your video display is'nt within the xawtv window,
some older matrox cards show this problem.  This gets passed through
to v4l-conf(8) too.
.br
Resource: motv.shift (int).
.TP
\fB-fb\fP
Use the framebuffer device to determine the video framebuffer address
(instead of the DGA extension).  Yet another pass through argument.
.br
Resource: motv.fbdev (bool).
.TP
\fB-xv/-noxv \fP
enable/disable the usage of the Xvideo extension altogether,
i.e. -noxv has the same effect as both -noxv-video and -noxv-image
switches (see below).
.br
Resource: xawtv.xv (bool).
.TP
\fB-xv-video/-noxv-video \fP
enable/disable the usage of the Xvideo extension for video overlay
(i.e. XvPutVideo).  overlay mode uses this.  default is on.
.br
Resource: xawtv.xvVideo (bool).
.TP
\fB-xv-image/-noxv-image \fP
enable/disable the usage of the Xvideo extension for image scaling
(i.e. XvPutImage).  grabdisplay mode uses this.  default is on.
.br
Resource: xawtv.xvImage (bool).
.TP
\fB-vm/-novm\fP
enable/disable the usage of the VidMode extension, default is off.
If there is a fullscreen video mode configured in the config file,
the vidmode extension will be enabled automatically.
.br
Resource: motv.vidmode (bool).
.TP
\fB-dga/-nodga\fP
enable/disable the usage of the DGA extension, default is on.
.br
Resource: motv.dga (bool).
.TP
\fB-parallel\fP n
use n compression threads (default: one).
.br
Resource: xawtv.parallel (int).
.P
The usual toolkit options like \fB-geometry\fP are supported too.
.SH SUPPORTED HARDWARE / INTERFACES
.TP
.B v4l
video4linux - \fBthe\fP linux video capture API.
.TP
.B v4l2
video4linux two - new, improved capture interface which fixes a number
of v4l design bugs.
.TP
.B bktr
FreeBSD / OpenBSD driver for bt848/878 grabber cards.
.TP
.B Xvideo
X11 Extension for video devices.  Note that the Xvideo extension does
support overlay only, you can't capture images/movies if the Xvideo
extension is used.  On the other hand this is the only way to scaled
video overlay (i.e. fullscreen without black borders @ 1024x748) if
both hardware and xfree86 driver support it.  See README.xfree4 for
more details and hints on how to setup Xvideo.
.SH GETTING STARTED
.B motv
starts up with the TV window.  The left mouse button shows a menu with
all TV Stations (empty until you have defined some).  The right mouse
button brings up the control window.
.P
The first time you have configure motv, i.e. set TV norm and frequency
table to the correct values.  Check if the hardware works correctly
(if tuning does not work it is very likely a driver configuration
issue).  If the hardware operates fine, you can let motv look for TV
stations (Options => Channel scan).  The channel buttons have a
context menu for deleting and editing.  Don't forget to save your
configuration when you are done.
.P
You can also create/edit a config file with any text editor, see
xawtvrc(5) for a description of the config file syntax.  There are a
number of config options which can only be set by editing the config
file.
.SH KEYBOARD SHORTCUTS
Some of them work in the TV window only.  The cursor keys for example
are used by the motif toolkit to allow full keyboard control of the
GUI and therefore have other functions in the control window.
.P
.nf
V            \fIV\fPideo (Capture) on/off
A            \fIA\fPudio on/off
F            \fIF\fPullscreen on/off
G            \fIG\fPrab picture (full size, ppm)
J            Grab picture (full size, \fIj\fPpeg)
Ctrl+G       \fIG\fPrab picture (window size, ppm)
Ctrl+J       Grab picture (window size, \fIj\fPpeg)
Ctrl+C       Copy to clipboard.
C            Popup \fIC\fPontrol Window
R            Popup AVI \fIR\fPecording Window
S            Popup \fIS\fPcale controls
Z            Channel Hopper (\fIz\fPapping, tune in every
	     station a few seconds)
Ctrl+Z       Fast Channel Hopping (grab the images for the
	     Channel Bottons)

up/down      tune up/down one channel
left/right   fine tuning
pgup/pgdown  station up/down (the ones you have in the config file)
space        next station (same as pgup)
backspace    previously tuned station
Ctrl+up      scan for next station

ESC,Q        \fIQ\fPuit

+/-          Volume up/down (keypad)
Enter        mute (keypad)
.fi
.SH BUGS
.B Bug reports with images attached go to /dev/null unseen.
.P
motv depends on a correct driver configuration.  If you can't tune TV
stations even if the settings in the options window are correct it is
very likely a driver issue.
.SH SEE ALSO
xawtvrc(5), xawtv(1), fbtv(1), v4l-conf(8), mtt(1)
.br
http://bytesex.org/xawtv/ (homepage)
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2001 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.SH MISC
Huh?  Still with me?  Looks like some people \fBdo\fP read manuals
carefully.
