.TH pia 1 "(c) 2002 Gerd Knorr"
.SH NAME
pia - play media files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pia [ options ] movie
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pia
is a small X11 tool which plays movie files.
.SH OPTIONS
.B pia
understands the usual toolkit options (-geometry + friends).
Additional options are:
.TP
.B -h
display help text
.TP
.B -v
be verbose.
.TP
.B -debug
enable debug messages.
.TP
.B -dsp <dev>
Use OSS device <dev> for sound.
.TP
.B -noxv
Disable Xvideo extension.
.TP
.B -nogl
Disable OpenGL.
.TP
.B -noaudio
Don't play sound.
.TP
.B -novideo
Don't play video.
.TP
.B -slow n
Slowdown video playback by factor n.  n=2 doubles playback time, ...
This also turns off audio playback.
.SH SUPPORTED MOVIE FORMATS
Main purpose of this utility is to playback movie files recorded by
xawtv, motv and streamer.  It should be able to playback every AVI or
QuickTime movie written by one of the mentioned utilities.  Feel free
to submit a bug report if this doesn't work for some file.
.SS QuickTime
.B pia
uses libquicktime to decode quicktime movies, thus it should be able
to decode and playback all movies with codecs supported by
libquicktime.
.SS AVI
AVI support is very limited.  Video: uncompressed RGB data (15 and 24
bpp) and mjpeg is supported.  Audio: only uncompressed PCM data works.
.SS WAV
WAV files are playable too, with the same limitation like AVI audio:
only uncompressed PCM data.
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
.SH COPYRIGHT
2002 Gerd Knorr
.P
Copyright (C) 2002 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
