.TH radio 1 "(c) 1998-2001 Gerd Knorr"
.SH NAME
radio - console radio application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radio [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B radio
is a interactive, ncurses-bases console radio application.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
print a short help text.
.TP
.B -d
enable debug output.
.TP
.B -q
quit after processing the cmd line options, don't enter interactive
ncurses mode.  Only useful together with other options for obvious
reasons ...
.TP
.B -m
mute radio.
.TP
.B -f freq
tune the specified radio frequency (and unmute the radio).
.TP
.B -c dev
specify radio device (default is /dev/radio0).
.TP
.B -s
Do a scan for radio stations.
.TP
.B -S
Same as above + write a radio.fmmap with the signal for every
frequency.  You can get a graph for it with gnuplot (plot
"radio.fmmap" w lin).
.TP
.B -i
Scan, write a initial ~/.radio file to stdout and quit.  So you can
create a config file where you only have to fill in the correct
station names later this way: "radio -i > ~/.radio".  See below for
the config file syntax.
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B radio
picks up station names and present stations from a config file. 
It can parse kradio (KDE radio app) config files, therefore it
first tries the usual KDE config file location:
\fB~/.kde/share/config/kradiorc\fP. Failing that,
.B radio
tries \fB~/.radio\fP (which makes things a bit easier for people
who don't use kradio).
.P
The format looks like this:
.P
.nf
# KDE Config File
[Buttons]
1=95800000
2=91400000
[Stations]
100600000=Hundert,6
95800000=Radio eins
102600000=Fritz
94300000=r.s.2
91400000=Berliner Rundfunk
.fi
.P
The [Buttons] section can have up to eight entries.  That are
the present stations, they get mapped to F1-F8.  The [Stations]
section maps frequencies to station names.  The frequencies in
both sections are specified in Hz.
.SH KEYS
.nf
X	     exit
ESC,Q,E      mute and exit.
up/down      inc/dec frequency
pgup/pgdown  next/previous station.  This one uses the
             stations from the config file by default.
             When started with the -s option these keys
             will cycle througth the stations found during
             the scan.
F1-F8, 1-8   preset buttons.
Ctrl+L       redraw screen.
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2001 Gerd Knorr

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
