.TH record 1 "(c) Gerd Knorr"
.SH NAME
record - records *.wav files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B record [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B record
records *.wav files in CD quality (i.e. 44100 Hz, 16bit, stereo).
It has a input level meter, which might be useful for sound trouble
shooting (check if the mixer settings ok for recording from the
TV card etc.)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
display help text
.TP
.B -o file
basename for the output file(s), a number and the .wav
extension are added by record.  Default is "record".
.TP
.B -i dev
mixer control.  This should be the one where you can adjust the record
level for your audio source.  Default is "line".  "mic" and "igain"
are good candidates too.  Best way to figure is to start your favorite
mixer tool and check out which one works ...
.TP
.B -m dev
set mixer device.  Default is "/dev/mixer".
.TP
.B -d dev
set audio device.  Default is "/dev/dsp".
.TP
.B -r rate
set sample rate.  Default is 44100.
.TP
.B -p sec
peak seconds (number of seconds which should be scanned for the volume
maximum).  This affects both peak level display and level triggered
recording (see below).  Default is 1.5 seconds.
.P
record can also be used non-interactive:
.TP
.B -c
enable console (non-interactive) mode.
.TP
.B -v
be verbose (console mode only).
.TP
.B -t mm:ss
Limit the record time (console mode only).  By default record records
until stopped by a signal (by typing ^C for example).
.TP
.B -s size
Limit the file size (console mode only).  record will continue with
a new file once the limit is reached.
.TP
.B -n num
Limit the file count (console mode only).  record will stop recording
after num files.
.TP
.B -l
Enable level triggered recording (console mode only) with the default
trigger level (1000).
.TP
.B -L level
Enable level triggered recording with the specified trigger level.
.P
If level triggered recording is active, record will start and stop
recording depending on the signal strength.  Recording will be started
if the signal strength is above the trigger level (1000/32768 =>
around 3%).  Recording will be stopped if the signal is below the
trigger level for some time (1.5 seconds by default, the -p switch
changes this).
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
