.TH scantv 1 "(c) 2000 Gerd Knorr"
.SH NAME
scantv - scan a v4l device for TV stations.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B scantv [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B scantv
scans a v4l device for available TV stations and writes a
xawtv/fbtv config file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -i input
set tv  \fBi\fPnput (Television/Composite1/S-video and so on).
Default is Television.
.TP
.B -n norm
set tv  \fBn\fPorm.   scantv will ask interactively if
none is given.
.TP
.B -f table
set \fBf\fPrequency table.  scantv will ask interactively if
none is given.
.TP
.B -o outfile
specify \fBo\fPutput file.  If none is specified, scantv writes
to stdout.
.TP
.B -c device
specify video device file.  Default is /dev/video0.
.TP
.B -D driver
specify video driver name.  Default is "libv4l".
.TP
.B -C device
specify vbi device file.  Default is /dev/vbi0.
.TP
.B -s
skip channel \fBs\fPcan, just write norm + freqtab to the
config file.
.TP
.B -a
Do a full scan (i.e. all frequencies, not just the ones from the
frequency table).
.SH SEE ALSO
xawtv(1), fbtv(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2000 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
.P
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.P
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
