.TH streamer 1
.SH NAME
streamer - record audio and/or video
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B streamer [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B streamer
reads audio and/or video data from /dev/video0 and /dev/dsp and
writes the data to the disk.  Various output formats are supported.
Start streamer with '-h' for a list of options and supported output
formats.
.P
streamer will use the file extention of the output file name to figure
which format to use.  You need the -f/-F options only if the extention
allows more than one format.  If you get the "neither audio nor video
format specified/found" message and don't know why, you can enable the
debug output (-d switch) to see what is going on.
.P
You can safely stop the recording at any time with Ctrl+C.  streamer
will catch the signal and stop recording correctly (i.e. write movie
file headers) before exiting.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B streamer -o foobar.jpeg
write a single jpeg file.
.TP
.B streamer -o quicktime.mov -f yuv2 -F stereo -r 12 -t 0:10
record a short quicktime movie.
.SH SEE ALSO
xawtv(1), v4lctl(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
.SH COPYRIGHT
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.P
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
