.TH v4l-conf 8 "(c) 1997-99 Gerd Knorr"
.SH NAME
v4l-conf -  configure a video4linux driver
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B v4l-conf [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B v4l-conf
is a small helper tool.  It figures out the video mode and framebuffer
base address of the graphics board and configures a video4linux driver
like bttv.  This is needed for drivers which can DMA the video over PCI
directly into the video memory.
.P
Usually it is not required to use v4l-conf manually, xawtv(1) and
fbtv(1) run it automatically at startup.  It might be useful for
trouble-shooting.
.B v4l-conf
must be installed suid-root.
.P
.B v4l-conf
knows three ways to get the informations:
.TP 3
 *
Query the X-Server using the XF86 DGA extension.  This is the default
if the DISPLAY environment variable is set.
.TP 3
 * 
Query the framebuffer driver.  This is the default if DISPLAY is not
set.
.TP 3
 *
Query the console driver.  This is used on mklinux only.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 4
\fB-h\fP
Print a short description of all command line options.
.TP 4
\fB-q\fP
Be quiet.
.TP 4
\fB-d\fP dpy
Use the X11 display \fBdpy\fP to get the parameters.
.TP 4
\fB-f\fP
Use the framebuffer driver to get the parameters.
.TP 4
\fB-c\fP device
Set the video4linux device.
.TP 4
\fB-b\fP n
enforce
.B n
bpp color depth.  Works for switching between 15/16 and 24/32 bpp.
.TP 4
\fB-s\fP n
Shift the video display by
.B n
bytes.
.TP 4
\fB-a\fP adr
Set framebuffer address to \fBadr\fP.  The value should be specified
in hex.  This option is allowed for root only.  You can't overwrite the
autodetected value, this switch is only useful if autodetect doesn't
work because the X-Server lacks DGA support.  You can put this into
/etc/conf.modules, as "post-install bttv ..." for example.
.TP 4
\fB-p\fP pitch
Set framebuffer pitch to \fBpitch\fP bytes.  The value should be specified
in decimal. Allowed for root only.
.SH BUGS
Hope I haven't any security flaws in there.  If you find one, drop me a
note.  Mails with patches are preferred :-)
.SH SEE ALSO
xawtv(1), fbtv(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Knorr <kraxel@goldbach.in-berlin.de>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-99 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@goldbach.in-berlin.de>
.P
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.P
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
