.TH xawtv-remote 1 "(c) 1997-99 Gerd Knorr"
.SH NAME
xawtv-remote, v4lctl -- control video4linux devices
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xawtv-remote [ options ] command
.br
.B v4lctl [ options ] command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B xawtv-remote
and
.B v4lctl
can be used to control a video4linux driven TV card.
.B xawtv-remote
passes the command to a already running xawtv or motv
instance using X11 properties.
.B v4lctl
sets the parameters directly.
.SH OPTIONS
.B xawtv-remote
knows the following options:
.TP
.B -h
print a short help text
.TP
.B -d dpy
Set the X11 display
.TP
.B -i id
Set the Window ID.
.P
.B v4lctl
understands these options:
.TP
.B -h
print a short help text
.TP
.B -c device
Set video4linux device.
.TP
.B -D driver
Set video4linux driver.
.TP
.B -v n
Set debug level to \fBn\fP, where n = [0..2]
.SH COMMANDS
Both tools basically use the same set of commands.  Some of them are
useful for xawtv-remote only (fullscreen for example).
.TP
.B setstation [ <name> | <nr> | next | prev | back ]
Set the TV station.  This selects on of the TV stations which are
configured in the .xawtv config file.  The argument can be the station
name or a number (the first one listed in the config file is 0, ...).
next/prev jumps to the next/previous station in the list, back to the
previously selected one.
.TP
.B setchannel [ <name> | next | prev ]
Tune in some channel.
.TP
.B setfreqtab <table>
Set the frequency table.  See the menu in xawtv for a list of valid
choices.
.TP
.B setnorm <norm>
Set the TV norm (NTSC/PAL/SECAM).
.TP
.B setinput [ <input> | next ]
Set the video input (Television/Composite1/...)
.TP
.B capture [ on | off | overlay | grabdisplay ]
Set capture mode.
.TP
.B volume mute on | off
mute / unmute audio.
.TP
.B volume <arg>
.TP
.B color <arg>
.TP
.B hue <arg>
.TP
.B bright <arg>
.TP
.B contrast <arg>
Set the parameter to the specified value.  <arg> can be one of the
following: A percent value ("70%" for example).  Some absolute value
("32768"), the valid range is hardware specific.  Relative values can
be specified too by prefixing with "+=" or "-=" ("+=10%" or "-=2000").
The keywords "inc" and "dec" are accepted to and will increase and
decrease the given value in small steps.
.TP
.B setattr <name> <value>
Set set the value of some attribute (color, contrast, ... can be set
this way too).
.TP
.B show [ <name> ]
Show the value current of some attribute.
.TP
.B list
List all available attributes with all properties (default value,
range, ...)
.TP
.B snap [ jpeg | ppm ] [ full | win | widthxheight ] <filename>
Capture one image.
.TP
.B webcam <filename>
Capture one image.  Does basically the same as "snap jpeg win
<filename>".  Works also while avi recording is active.  It writes
to a temporary file and renames it when done, so there is never
a invalid file.
.TP
.B movie driver [ files | raw | avi | qt ]
.TP
.B movie video [ ppm | pgm | jpeg | rgb | gray | 422 | 422p | rgb15 | rgb24 | mjpeg | jpeg | raw | mjpa | png ]
.TP
.B movie fps <frames per second>
.TP
.B movie audio [ mono8 | mono16 | stereo ]
.TP
.B movie rate <sample rate>
.TP
.B movie fvideo <filename>
.TP
.B movie faudio <filename>
.TP
.B movie start
.TP
.B movie stop
control xawtv's movie recorder.
.TP
.B fullscreen
Toggle fullscreen mode.
.TP
.B showtime
Display time (same what the 'D' key does in xawtv).
.TP
.B msg text
Display text on the on-screen display (window title / upper left corner in
fullscreen mode).
.TP
.B vtx line1 line2 [ ... ]
Display subtitles.  It pops up a small window at the bottom of the screen.
It is intended to be used as an interface for displaying subtitles (often on
videotext page 150 in Europe, that's why the name) by external programs.
.br
Every command line argument is one line, zero lines removes the window.
You can colorize the text with the control sequence "ESC foreground
background".  foreground/background has the range 0-7 (ansi term colors).
Example: "\\03347 hello world " is blue on white.  "\\033" must be a real
escape character, the string doesn't work.  With the bash you'll get it
with ^V ESC.  vtx does also understand the ANSI tty escape sequences for
color.
.TP
.B quit
quit xawtv
.TP
.B keypad n
enter digit 'n'.  That's the two-digit channel selection, entering two
digits within 5 seconds switches to the selected station.  Useful for
lirc.
.TP
.B vdr command
send "command" to vdr (via connect on localhost:2001).
.SH SEE ALSO
xawtv(1), motv(1), xawtvrc(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 1997-2001 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>
.P
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.P
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.P
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
