
! ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
! some standard motif stuff [i18n]

!*.cancelLabelString:				Cancel
!*.applyLabelString:				Apply
!*.XmFileSelectionBox.dirListLabelString:	Directories
!*.XmFileSelectionBox.fileListLabelString:	Files
!*.XmFileSelectionBox.selectionLabelString:	Selection


! ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
! strings [i18n]

MoTV.about_box_popup.title:		About motv
MoTV*about_box_popup*messageString:	\
	motv - Motif TV application	\n\
	\n\
	(c) 2002 Gerd Knorr <kraxel@bytesex.org>

MoTV.errbox_popup.title:		Errors

control*menubar*fileM.tearOffTitle:	File
control*menubar*editM.tearOffTitle:	Edit
control*menubar*toolsM.tearOffTitle:	Tools
control*menubar*tuneM.tearOffTitle:	Tuner control
control*menubar*grabM.tearOffTitle:	Grab image
control*menubar*ratioM.tearOffTitle:	Aspect ratio
control*menubar*launchM.tearOffTitle:	Launch
control*menubar*subM.tearOffTitle:	Subtitles
control*menubar*stationsM.tearOffTitle:	TV Stations
control*menubar*optionsM.tearOffTitle:	Options
control*menubar*helpM.tearOffTitle:	Help
control*menubar*captureM.tearOffTitle:	Capture
control*menubar*freqM.tearOffTitle:	Frequency table
control*menubar*inputM.tearOffTitle:	Inputs
control*menubar*normM.tearOffTitle:	TV Norm

control*menubar.file.labelString:	File
control*menubar.file.mnemonic:		F
control*menubar.edit.labelString:	Edit
control*menubar.edit.mnemonic:		E
control*menubar.tools.labelString:	Tools
control*menubar.tools.mnemonic:		T
control*menubar*tune.labelString:	Tuner
control*menubar*grab.labelString:	Grab image
control*menubar*ratio.labelString:	Aspect ratio
control*menubar*launch.labelString:	Launch
control*menubar*sub.labelString:	Subtitles
control*menubar.stations.labelString:	Stations
control*menubar.stations.mnemonic:	S
control*menubar.options.labelString:	Options
control*menubar.options.mnemonic:	O
control*menubar.filter.labelString:	Filter
control*menubar.filter.mnemonic:	F
control*menubar.help.labelString:	Help
control*menubar.help.mnemonic:		H

! file menu
control*menubar*rec.labelString:	Record movie ...
control*menubar*rec.mnemonic:		R
control*menubar*rec.acceleratorText:	R
control*menubar*rec.accelerator:	<Key>R
control*menubar*quit.labelString:	Quit
control*menubar*quit.mnemonic:		Q
control*menubar*quit.acceleratorText:	Q
control*menubar*quit.accelerator:	<Key>Q

! edit menu
control*menubar*copy.labelString:	Copy
control*menubar*copy.mnemonic:		C
control*menubar*copy.acceleratorText:	Ctrl+C
control*menubar*copy.accelerator:	Ctrl<Key>C

! tools menu
control*menubar*mute.labelString:	Mute audio
control*menubar*mute.mnemonic:		a
control*menubar*mute.acceleratorText:	A
control*menubar*mute.accelerator:	<Key>A
control*menubar*full.labelString:	Fullscreen
control*menubar*full.mnemonic:		F
control*menubar*full.acceleratorText:	F
control*menubar*full.accelerator:	<Key>F
control*menubar*ontop.labelString:	Stay on Top
control*menubar*ontop.mnemonic:		T
control*menubar*ontop.acceleratorText:	T
control*menubar*ontop.accelerator:	<Key>T
control*menubar*levels.labelString:	Record level monitor ...
control*menubar*levels.mnemonic:	l
control*menubar*levels.acceleratorText:	L
control*menubar*levels.accelerator:	<Key>L
control*menubar*st_up.labelString:	Next station
control*menubar*st_up.acceleratorText:	page up
control*menubar*st_dn.labelString:	Previous station
control*menubar*st_dn.acceleratorText:	page down

control*menubar*ch_up.labelString:	Channel up
control*menubar*ch_up.acceleratorText:	up
control*menubar*ch_dn.labelString:	Channel down
control*menubar*ch_dn.acceleratorText:	down
control*menubar*fi_up.labelString:	Finetune up
control*menubar*fi_up.acceleratorText:	right
control*menubar*fi_dn.labelString:	Finetune down
control*menubar*fi_dn.acceleratorText:	left

control*menubar*ppm_f.labelString:	PPM, max size
control*menubar*ppm_f.acceleratorText:	G
control*menubar*ppm_f.accelerator:	~Ctrl<Key>G
control*menubar*ppm_w.labelString:	PPM, window size
control*menubar*ppm_w.acceleratorText:	Ctrl+G
control*menubar*ppm_w.accelerator:	Ctrl<Key>G
control*menubar*jpg_f.labelString:	JPEG, max size
control*menubar*jpg_f.mnemonic:		J
control*menubar*jpg_f.acceleratorText:	J
control*menubar*jpg_f.accelerator:	~Ctrl<Key>J
control*menubar*jpg_w.labelString:	JPEG, window size
control*menubar*jpg_w.acceleratorText:	Ctrl+J
control*menubar*jpg_w.accelerator:	Ctrl<Key>J

control*menubar*r_no.labelString:	no ratio
control*menubar*r_no.mnemonic:		n
control*menubar*r_43.labelString:	4:3
control*menubar*r_43.mnemonic:		4

control*menubar*s_off.labelString:	disable
control*menubar*s_150.labelString:	page 150
control*menubar*s_150.mnemonic:		1
control*menubar*s_333.labelString:	page 333
control*menubar*s_333.mnemonic:		3
control*menubar*s_777.labelString:	page 777
control*menubar*s_777.mnemonic:		7
control*menubar*s_801.labelString:	page 801
control*menubar*s_801.mnemonic:		0
control*menubar*s_888.labelString:	page 888
control*menubar*s_888.mnemonic:		8

! options menu
control*menubar*add.labelString:	Add station ...
control*menubar*add.mnemonic:		A
control*menubar*scan.labelString:	Channel scan ...
control*menubar*pref.labelString:	Preferences ...
control*menubar*pref.mnemonic:		P
control*menubar*save.labelString:	Save configuration
control*menubar*save.mnemonic:		S

control*menubar*capture.labelString:	Capture
control*menubar*capture.mnemonic:	C
control*menubar*freq.labelString:	Frequency table
control*menubar*freq.mnemonic:		F
control*menubar*scale.labelString:	Scales ...
control*menubar*scale.mnemonic:		S
control*menubar*scale.acceleratorText:	S
control*menubar*scale.accelerator:	<Key>S

control*menubar*input.labelString:	Input
control*menubar*input.mnemonic:		I
control*menubar*norm.labelString:	TV Norm
control*menubar*norm.mnemonic:		N

! filter menu
control*menubar*fnone.labelString:	No filter
control*menubar*fnone.mnemonic:		N

! help menu
control*menubar*man.labelString:	Show manpage
control*menubar*man.mnemonic:		m
control*menubar*about.labelString:	About ...
control*menubar*about.mnemonic:		A

! tooltips (needs openmotif 2.2)
control*tool.prev.toolTipString:	previous station
control*tool.next.toolTipString:	next station
control*tool.snap.toolTipString:	grab image
control*tool.movie.toolTipString:	record movie
control*tool.mute.toolTipString:	mute audio
control*tool.exit.toolTipString:	quit

control*box.XmPushButton*menu.del.labelString:	Delete
control*box.XmPushButton*menu.edit.labelString:	Edit ...

! channel scan
*chscan_popup.title:		Channel scan
*chscan_popup*okLabelString:	Start
*chscan_popup*hints.labelString:	\
	You can let me scan all channels for\n\
	TV stations here.  This will create a\n\
	new channel list from scratch, your\n\
	current list will be lost.\n\
	\n\
	Make sure you have configured the correct\n\
	TV norm and Frequency table first (it's in\n\
	the options menu too), otherwise the scan\n\
	will not find any station ...\n\
	\n

! channel properties
*prop_popup.title:			Edit Station
*prop_popup*rc.nameL.labelString:	Station name
*prop_popup*rc.keyL.labelString:	Hotkey
*prop_popup*rc.groupL.labelString:	Group
*prop_popup*rc.channelL.labelString:	Channel
*prop_popup*rc.buttons.ok.labelString:	OK
*prop_popup*rc.buttons.cancel.labelString: Cancel
*prop_popup*no_name_popup.title:	Error
*prop_popup*no_name_popup*messageString: \
	You have to specify a name for the TV Station

! preferences
*pref_popup.title:			Preferences
*pref_popup*okLabelString:		Save
*pref_popup*fsL.labelString:		Fullscreen
*pref_popup*fsT.labelString:		Enable mode switching
*pref_popup*fsO.labelString:		Video mode:
*pref_popup*mixL.labelString:		Volume (needs restart to take effect)
*pref_popup*mixT.labelString:		Use mixer device for volume control
*pref_popup*mix1O.labelString:		mixer device:
*pref_popup*mix2O.labelString:		mixer control:
*pref_popup*optL.labelString:		Options
*pref_popup*osd.labelString:		Use onscreen display in Fullscreen mode
*pref_popup*keypad-ntsc.labelString:	keypad: ntsc mode
*pref_popup*keypad-partial.labelString:	\
	keypad: enable partial (switch on first key)
*pref_popup*jpeg.label.labelString:	JPEG quality:

scale.title:				Scale controls
scale*volume.titleString:		Volume
scale*bright.titleString:		Bright
scale*hue.titleString:			Hue
scale*color.titleString:		Saturation
scale*contrast.titleString:		Contrast

levels.title:				Monitor
levels*enable.labelstring:		enable

streamer.title:				record a movie
streamer*driverL.labelString:		Output format
streamer*driver.labelString:		Driver:
streamer*videoL.labelString:		Video options
streamer*video.labelString:		Format:
streamer*fpsL.labelString:		fps:
streamer*audioL.labelString:		Audio options
streamer*audio.labelString:		Format:
streamer*rateL.labelString:		Rate:
streamer*fileL.labelString:		Filenames
streamer*fvideoL.labelString:		Video:
streamer*faudioL.labelString:		Audio:
streamer*status.labelString:		fixme

streamer*files.labelString:		Browse ...
streamer*buttons.rec.labelString:	Record
streamer*buttons.stop.labelString:	Stop
streamer*buttons.play.labelString:	Playback
streamer*buttons.cancel.labelString:	Close

MoTV.man_popup.title:			Manual page
MoTV.man_popup*okLabelString:		close window
MoTV.man_popup*label.labelString:	please wait ...

